Is He(Baba) Hindu, Muslim, Chandmiya, or what?
Sai Baba is not a Sanatani. He is not God.
Is He(Baba) Hindu, Muslim, Chandmiya, or what?
Sai Baba is not a Sanatani. He is not God.
He is Chandmiya.
Your Chandmiya is someone else.
He is Chandmiya.
Your Chandmiya is someone else.
Not the Sai Baba of Shirdi.
Your Chandmiya is someone else.
Not the Sai Baba of Shirdi.
Baba stands naked.
Find out whether I am Hindu or Muslim.
What must have been seen?
Must have seen circumcision.
Amazing!
He used to daub his own excreta in the mosque.
His association with non-veg?
Yes, and he himself used to eat.
Stop it, what is all this?
You lack merits to qualify SSC
but you roam around with IAS books
He used to smoke Chilam.
Yes, 24x7.
Sai Baba used to abuse a lot.
women have been addressed as prostitutes.
The entire studio is filled with silence now.
Have you come to your senses now?
Let's talk about Satya Sai Baba.
A child is considered as the incarnation of Sai Baba
And our society which is so dangerous, tomorrow it will make a 8 years old child stand
as the incarnation of Sai
I will break that illusion today.
This book is that 8 year old child.
Sai Baba is not a Sanatani.
Om Namah Parvati Pate, Har Har Mahadev, Jai Sia Ram.
My name is Vinayak Shah.
And I am Vineet Khataria.
Welcome to Win-Win World.
Let's start the podcast directly with Krishna Ji.
There will be a lot of research-based talks today.
Today, we are going to dive deep and learn about Sai Baba.
And we are going to solve a lot of controversies.
After this episode, it will become clear to you
Who Sai Baba was, what all he did and who he is.
Om Sairam Krishna Ji. Om Sairam.
How are you Krishna Ji?
I am absolutely fine.
Why were you away from the podcast for so many days?
I am sorry for that.
I was a little busy.
Whatever it is, I am in front of you today.
My first question is to the point.
A controversy has started that He is a Hindu, a Muslim, a Chandmiya.
So, what He is.
Because all these words that are coming
Chandmiya, Fakir, all these words
as it is said that where there is smoke, there is fire.
So there must be some meaning behind what those people are saying.
referring these words.
Because important people are saying this.
So what is it?
While raising slogans, we say 'Victory to Anantkoti Brahmand Nayak, Rajadhiraj, Yogiraj.
Parabrahma, Satchidananda Sadguru, Sainath Maharaj.
So in the slogan itself, we call Him The Lord of infinite universes., King of Kings
The embodiment of Parabrahma, the manifestation of Satchidananda—we call him Sadguru.
We address him as Sadguru.
But when did we bring that aspect before the world?
First of all, Chandmiya. Correct.
The people who say that Baba was Chandmiya.
Until you see the original text, Sai Satcharitra,
They refer to the same text and say, let me tell you that too.
But let me tell you the problem
The original text of Sai Satcharitra is this big.
Ok.
This thick.
But what did the Trust do?
The world may not be able to read such a big text.
Thus, the Vedantic and spiritual wisdom were removed from it.
It was completely separated.
A small book was printed, containing only miracles.
So that every person can read it.
It was made easy.
Only the miracle part was kept.
A small book was printed with the miracle part, besides this.
But what became the problem was
that It was sold so much that this one was suppressed.
Because it has divine plays, magic,
interesting!
miracles of Baba.
So people enjoy reading it.
And it was sold a lot.
And all the questions people raise, pointing out, 'See, it is written in Sai Satcharitra
That Baba said Allah Malik here.
they show a small text as reference
Let me clear this today.
By showing that small text, the one with stories
which is not complete.
without a speck of spiritual wisdom.
The Vedantic part in the main text, and Baba says that I have created this text
to bring the mysteries of Vedanta in front of the world through these divine Plays.
So that Vedantic part is missing.
In that small text.
They show that small text and say that Baba used to say 'Allah Malik' here.
"Look, it is written on this page in this line."
Look, here Baba was addressed as Muslim Fakir.
So by showing this, they want to prove that Baba was a Muslim. Correct.
Now the second, those who are addressing Him as Chand Mia. Chand Mia, in the fifth chapter, was Baba's devotee named Chand Patil,
who hailed from from Aurangabad.
Once, his horse got lost.
Sorry, What gets lost?
Horse.
Horse. He gets lost.
And for two and a half months, he was tired of searching for it.
Finally, while passing through somewhere near Aurangabad.
He finds Baba sitting under a mango tree
And Baba himself calls Chand Patil,
O Chand Patil, come here.
And Baba himself calls Chand Patil,
O Chand Patil, come here.
Baba calls that person by his name.
He comes.
So Baba asks, What are you worried about?
So he replies, "My horse is lost."
For two and a half months, I have been searching for it. I am looking for it.
But it is nowhere to be found.
So Baba says, What is the need to worry?
The drain that is visible in front, Go there and see.
You will find your horse.
So he goes there.
He really finds the horse there.
He brings it.
He feels that this,
Even at that time, Baba is in the guise of a Fakir.
As we see his attire today.
His attire was completely inspired by Fakir, sufi.
His attire was like that of a Fakir.
Just by looking at that attire, the world wants to say that he was a Muslim.
And he used to live in the mosque.
which was named as Dwarkamai by Baba
See, how strange that too is
It is a mosque.
In reality.
But Baba says that it is Dwarkamai.
This is my Dwarka.
Means indirectly Baba is saying That he is Krishna.
Means.
His perspective was very elevated.
But we brought him to a very low level.
So.
After meeting his horse, Chand Patil becomes very happy.
He comes to Baba.
And says, "Baba
I'd like to take you to my village.
Chand Patil said.
So in the entire Book
Chand Patil is mentioned in Chapter 5.
Nowhere in the book is the word 'Chand Miya' not even 'Miya'
Only God knows from where these people have brought Chand Miya into existence.
There is no existence of that word in the Book
Chandmiya.
Chand Patil is there
that too he is Patil, from Maharashtra.
no such mention in small book either
there too chand patil is the word
There is nothing like Chandmiya in it. Now this.
Who created this narrative? Why was it created? What benefit do they get from it? Only they know.
So first of all, Let me clear this.
I am saying it again and again,
If you really want to read Sai Sacharitra Then please do not read that small book.
So why this? Allah Malik.
See.
Baba always had ‘Allah Malik’ on his tongue.
It is also written.
He incarnated to end all religious discrimination in this world.
That is why.
While living in Dwarkamai, despite wearing the attire of a Fakir, he lit the sacred fire there.
This, which Hindus call Agni Pooja, was performed. On one hand it was Dwarkamai, on the other side was the mosque, yet the sacred fire burned.
Although it was a mosque, bells were still tied there.
So inside that mosque. He lit the fire. It is still there.
Okay.
That is still burning.
And there is also a bell.
And also there is Tulsi Vrindavan.
So why did he keep this?
Mix.
What did he want to say?
You missed that point.
There is no religion.
No religion.
That is what he wanted to say.
If I exist, then I belong to all religions. But if I don’t, then I belong to none.
This is the basic principle.
Whenever Ram Navami and Muharram coincided, He used to celebrate both the festivals with the same intensity.
Both festivals.
I will tell you another secret.
In the 11th chapter of Sai Satcharitra. There comes a verse in Marathi
Baba says.
That Baba never allowed anyone to apply sandalwood on his forehead.
Yes.
Correct.
He did not even let anyone apply the Tika.
If anyone came to apply sandalwood.
Then he would put his feet in front of him.
So people would apply sandalwood to his feet and leave
Only Mhalsapati would apply sandalwood to Baba's neck.
Baba never allowed anyone apply over it
He never allowed anyone to apply sandalwood to his forehead.
Mhalsapati?
I didn't understand
Mhalsapati is a devotee of Baba.
Mhalsapati.
Why so?
I will open it.
Once a devotee named of Dr. Pandit came.
He was a Brahmin.
And his Guru was also a Brahmin.
Stern Hindu Brahmin.
And he gets to know that there dwells an Auliya in Shirdi. Very famous and capable
So, with the intention of His darshan he(Pandit) comes to shirdi
And goes for Baba's darshan.
And as soon as he sees Baba.
He gets overwhelmed with joy.
And he considers Baba as a Muslim Fakir in his mind.
Because he lives in a mosque.
And on top of that his attire is completely look like Fakir.
Like a Sufi. His entire attire is like a Fakir.
So. Baba is a Muslim Fakir in his mind.
Despite that.
What he does is he takes sandalwood from his prayer plate. And applies Tripundra to Baba.
Oh.
All the other devotees sitting there are taken aback. Until now, no one had been allowed to apply tilak, yet this man directly applied Tripundra.
So in the end. There was devotee of BABA named Dada kelkar
asks Baba,"Why this partiality? You don't even let us apply a small tilak. And this guy has applied the entire Tripundra.
The answer that Baba gives.
Really, all these staunch religious followers should hear this Leela. Every person, regardless of their faith, should listen to this.
Do you know what Baba answers him?
Dada, who asks Baba why he had been such partial,
He says. He considers me a Muslim Fakir. But he is a disciple of a Brahmin Guru. And whenever he goes to his Guru, he applies sandalwood to his Guru.
So here.
My being a Muslim has not hindered him. The way he applies sandalwood to his Guru, he applied sandalwood on my forehead.
He considered me as his bramhin Guru
Means he did not let religion come in between.
He applied sandalwood.
So Baba said, 'The kindness of his heart is so great. I am just an ordinary person, even hari har bramha would bow before his devotion to his Guru. Baba said.
So what does this Leela teach us? That on the journey of life, when you begin walking the spiritual path, you must break through the wall of religion.
If you don't break it.
Then you can't reach that completeness.
You can't reach that completeness.
There is a difference.
Being proud of your religion is a different thing.
But looking down on other religions is wrong.
And this discrimination will not let you reach that completeness.
Because you didn't break that wall.
Because someone else will think how do I apply trikund to a Muslim?" A barrier will be created.
It will come.
He will get scared.
He said from his actions,"I see my Guru in every being of the universe."
I do not see his religion, his lineage, or his attire.
I just able see that light.
I will give you an example.
Now Holi will come.
In a short time.
"Holi ka Dehen", the ritual observed a day before Holi
One day before. So.
When we gather all the sticks together, soak them in ghee, and hold a torch in one hand.
And after the worship.
Then we give it fire.
With the torch in hand, you set holi on fire. Now, it is completely engulfed in flames.
As soon as the flames start rising, you place the torch in your hand into the fire as well.
Yes.
Do you save it?
No.
You burn it to ashes too.
similarly,
This torch represents everyone's religion. But when the flames of fire.
When that formless Consciousness comes to its peak.
Then this religion should get burn in that.
Otherwise, If one kept swinging with the torch then the flames will burn you.
That staunchness
Nice.
Wow.
That's why perhaps, the Lord Krishna.
says after reaching 18th chapter in Gita
Sarva Dharmaan Parityajya Mamekam. Sharanam Vraja. Aham Tva Sarva Paapeyubhyo.
Moksha Ishaa Mimashu Chaha.
Come to my feet dropping all the religion.
He also says that this wall of religion will not work.
In the name of religion Baba has done one more leela. I will state that also because without that even Sai Satcharitra is incomplete. It is such a big Leela.
Once, on that day of Dussehra.
it is evening time, sunset time,
All the devotees are standing in front of Baba and he becomes so angry
He starts removing all his clothes.
He removes the clothes and puts them in fire and stand naked and says
that all my life you have pestered me with
That Baba are you Hindu or Muslim?
Now come and see if I am Hindu or muslim
Baba says these words standing naked.
Fully naked?
Fully naked.
These leela is in 42nd chapter he just said that
He said only that see whether I am hindu or muslim. What will you see?
There were around 50 to 100 people in Dwarakamai what would they have seen?
Whether he was circumcised or not.
Obviously they must have seen whether he was circumcised or not.
very good, you caught it.
Suppose Baba shows that he was circumcised,
means baba is proving that he is a muslim
Then that is one sided.
and if not then hindu
and if not then he is proving that he is a hindu
In both ways what he preached his whole life
will go against it.
Sabka malik ek, Allah Malik every religion is the same,
look at all religion in the same ways, have attitude of a swan.
All the teachings become zero.
Do you know what the question is? With that question the chapter ends. Baba says now you think.
There is no result.
No result.
Sai Satcharitra is like that.
Now we have to think what exactly did he want to say?
Should we see it from circumcision point of view. If he is a muslim then why does he call masjid Dwarakamai. Why is there a bell.
And if he is a hindu then why is he saying the God is Allah.
This is all a chaos.
There is a shloka in the 2nd chapter of Bhagwat Geeta. The answer to this is there.
Vasansi jirnani yatha vihaya,
tatha sharirani naro parani
tatha sharirani vihaya jirnanya
nyani sanyati navani dehi.
Lord Krishna says, that human you are not a body, you are a soul
This body has an end but soul never has an end
lThe way we throw out these clothes when they are worn out and we adorn new clothes in the same way this soul,
when this body is worn out drops it and the soul adorns a new body and comes again through mother’s womb.
So, Baba says similarly this body like clothes I have removed and put it in the fire
and the naked one who is standing here is the soul light. I am that light like soul. Now tell whether this light is hindu or muslim.
Christian also say that God is light
Islam also says that God is light and we too say
that Jyoti is form that it is flame like light.
Then why are you caught up in this body. Only after the body comes it will be either hindu or muslim. Because he has body he will be known as Ram or Rahim.
But if goes beyond body and enters light then where is the religion. There is no religion
There is doha by Kabirji. kabirji clears everything. His words have that sharpness.
Kabir says - Kabira Kuan Ek hai, Pani Bhare Anek Bartan sabhi ka nyare bhale, Paani sab mein ek.
Someone’s vessel is hindus someone else’s vessel is muslim. There are different vessels.
There are different religions but the flame like soul, that water
the spiritual wisdom is one. That one light is addressed as Allah, Ram, Krishna, Jesus, Mohammed, Pygamber.
That one light is known by so many names and religions. Water is same in all.
Baba has put Vedant, Upanishad, Bhagwat Gita in Sai Satcharitra.
It is essence of everything
Sometimes I ask a question. let's say
I am muslim, let's say a Hindu comes in front of me and says there are so many deficiencies in your religion
I will only say that whatever be your age,
let's say you are 40 you must not have given 40 minutes to my religion with honesty
Listen carefully only 40 minutes and you quickly made a narrative of the deficiencies only through hearsay.
I have given my whole life to the scriptures inspite of that I have not attained to full light.
bitter truth
If I am a hindu and I want to read Koran
let’s see what’s written in that, if I read it that way then I am being dishonest.
This should not be the perspective that let’s see what is written. What will you see?
we have to read with full faith
like you have read Gita
like I have read my Gita.
if there is so much greatness then you will understand Sai Baba,
otherwise you will never understand Sai Baba
You may take birth after birth but you will never understand Saibaba.
But to have this perspective is very difficult for people. Because when incident keep on happening one after the other and in every incident
only one community comes out
then it is very difficult to persuade people. When one loses a family member in such an incident
how can you tell such a person that it is not about religion but it is about understanding.
They will catch hold of religion only. They will say that community is wrong
It is a fact. I also understand but still I will say that
That is a fact. I understand the sensitivity. Even then I will say this is of higher dimension that Baba is giving.
You said if a person has lost a family member go and ask such a person but if
such a person accepts Baba’s teachings,
then they will not blemish religion. It is person’s fault and not religion’s
If the person who has lost if he stands up and says this then there is heaven at such a person’s feet.
And this talk is for one such a person.
This is one such thing. It is said that he used to eat meat, fish, nonveg.
What has been written in Sai Satcharitra about non veg?
He himself use to eat.
In Sai Satcharitra 38th Chapter it is clearly mentioned that Baba
used to cook in two types of vessels, for vegetarians there was a veg vessel
and for non-veg eaters non-veg vessel, He used to cook with his hands.
He used to cook non vegetarian food.
Yes, he used to cook and feed.
Oh, he used to feed people also.
And he has mentioned this in Sai Satcharitra also?
: It is mentioned in the 38th chapter of Sai Satcharitra.
That means it has been written.
I will not take anything from outside rather Which is in Sai Satcharita. It is a fact. It is written.
but while cooking many a times for instances a non-veg Pulao is being cooked. it is very hot, on its peak. At that time he used to put his hand and move it like a spoon to see if it is cooked or not.
But after removing his hand his hand did not burn this is also mentioned.
Ok, This is a miracle
but this has nothing to do with it we will come to this later.
and the people who were pure vegetarians
He used to feed them veg food and the people who always ate non-veg
They used to get non-veg served by Baba
Once, a yoga practitioner, thinking that Baba was a great yogi, came to him for some tips.
to take knowledge. So he sees that Baba is eating dry roti and onions. That yoga practitioner thinks that this person himself is eating onions
which is prohibited in our shastra it is prohibited garlic, onion and leave non-veg. In Jainism they dont eat potatoes as well. So as soon as this doubt comes in his mind
How can a person who eats onion teach me yoga?
So, Baba realized that this feeling had arisen in his mind. Sitting next to Baba was Shama, one of His devotees.
Baba turned to Shama and said, "Only those who have the ability to digest onions should eat them."
Now, who was this answer meant for?
to that yoga practitioner. So there Baba revealed this to the whole world
You have the right to eat onions only if you can keep the tamasic qualities in your control arising from it
Only then you can eat onions otherwise it is prohibited, he cleared this.
This was the first and foremost point to understand, as onions are considered tamasic
Now, the question arises: If Baba could make such a statement about onions, why did he serve non-vegetarian food?
it is logical he also fed people he himself also used to eat
Eating by yourself is a different matter but feeding others
You are promoting it.
He used to eat for he can control it's tamasic qualities but feeding people that is the question.
The thing is, if one wants to impart deep spiritual wisdom to someone, sometimes they must communicate in a way that aligns with that person's mindset.
The scripture clearly states that those who were vegetarians were never led toward non-vegetarian food.
for them different vessel were used,
But for those who were already accustomed to eating it, food was made accordingly.
There is also a belief in the scriptures that if a Sadguru (true spiritual master) prepares and gives someone food—even if it is tamasic—then eventually, that person will leave behind their attachment to such food.
A true Sadguru has only one intention: "These people are deeply entangled in it. Fine, I will prepare and give them food myself. Let’s see how long their desires last."
This sentiment is beautifully explained in a certain Ovi (a Marathi poetic verse).
It is clearly written here -  ajanmant nahi sahvas
(अजन्मंत नहीं सहवास)
those who never touched meat in their life
such devotees were there, they were connected to Baba
Ajanmaat nahi sahvas, tayas parshu na deti maasas. (अजन्मात नहीं सह्वास तयास परषु न देति मासस)
they were not allowed to touch meat
We miss this, this is the problem
kadhi hi na kariti he sahas
(कधी ही न करिती हे सहस)
they did not dare to feed them
prasadi lalasa tya deti(प्रसादि लालसा त्या देती)
now see this word is very important.
prasadi lalasa tya deti (प्रसादि लालसा त्या देती)
Now understand there is a Jain devotee connected to Baba
I am intentionally taking Jain here please understand it properly.
There is a Jain who has never even looked at meat
But he loves Baba immensely
and when he sees that on one hand he has cooked veg and on the other non-veg
My Sadguru has made these two with his own hands.
so he has taken the veg part full plate and goes to non-veg
And says put this much as prasad
I want to eat this I don't even want to have this ego
That I am so pure because my Guru has made this, so I take this as blessing
what will you call that devotee's devotion?
Extreme.
what kind of a devotee is he?
Satvik ego has also been destroyed and that too is a roadblock 'Satvik ego' that I am so pure
I don't do this, I don't do that but all these games don't work in front of Sadguru.
if Sadguru has made something with his own hands then I take that also as a blessing,
This could not be restricted food, or Tamsic food if my Sadguru has made it.
And if you eat with so much devotion then where do you reach?
one in millions, but it is said for such people
until this Sai satcharitra opens up which this deep. Such person's devotion towards his Guru is at it's culmination
I agree with that there would be one in millions as you said but imagine his stature
he will be able to sit only at His(Baba) level, he is that high.
And then, there is another instance where it is said—If I make someone eat, their desires will be pacified,
it will be extinguished. The feeling of eating will be finished
I say, those who are strict non-vegetarians should go and sit in Shirdi for 40 days,
That one day, baba feed me one peice, that i can get free.
अभक्ष्य भक्षण ज्याचे मन त्याची वासना करिती शमन
It is called abhaksh bhaksh as it is tamasic food. After eating this, tamoguna (dark, ignorant qualities) will inevitably arise. That is why it is called abhaksh bhaksh
meaning it is not fit to be eaten).
And such a desire for tamasic food—when it exists, it must be subdued (vasana shaman). If Baba himself places it on someone’s plate, then he has subdued their desires
that desire is extinguished by feeding, it is not instigated.
the meaning of shaman is exactly that.
if you miss this then series of question will take birth
Sai baba used to do this, sain baba used to do that
And this part mostly people missed, everyone
He just feed, just made and feed, stop all these. what is all this.
तेज करे जो मना सेदमन तयास अनुमोदन देसाई
if one who always eats meat says Baba I want to quit please have mercy on me
He applied all his strength so that he does not go back to meat, this is the meaning of it.
one more thing
Kabir ji also says so does baba not know
तिल भर मछली खाय के करे कोट गाय दान
means after eating fish of sesame size if you donated crores of cows.
काशी करवट ले मैरे तो भी नरक निदान.
If you take your last breath in Kashi, even then, only hell will be your fate.
because you ate fish of sesame size.
तिल भर मछली खाय के करे कोट गाय दान
काशी करवट ले मैरे तो भी नरक निदान
It is cleared, so does baba not know. He never encouraged
He is clearly saying only if you have the strength to digest the onion.
Only then eat onion, if someone is saying this,
Then how can he encourage someone to eat meat.
let me tell you one more leela once brahmin named Dada kelkar
who never touched meat all his life
but sometimes he used to check if satvik ego is on peak
Right
i am satvik, this is also an ego
I have not eaten all my life is also an ego. I don't look at it. I hate that word
this drama is a symbol of satvik ego so baba once told dada kelkar
go and check if that meat is cooked properly or not.
check it if it is cooked? He goes like this in front of the heated vessel.  And said," yes Baba, it is cooked.
How could you know that. Take out a piece and put it in your mouth then tell. Panic seized him
He don't feed him, he used to check if i say does he do it. He was testing
whether his sattvic ego was still there. Shouldn't that also fall?
There is one more leela, what happened once. all the devotees who used to go to shirdi there was a place called sathe vada.
where all the devotees used to stay there for months and from there they used go to dwarkamai to the mosque. once in the night a
poisonous snake enters the vada. It falls in the eyes of people and
kills it with a stick as it was the snake a poisonous snake
Now, after killing it, a discussion started—should it have been killed or not?
Because, after all, it was also a living being.
For one or two hours, they debated this.
but were not able to reach on conclusion. Someone said it would have risked our life if we would have not killed it.
it is right to kill it for our self defense. The other one said that it is to be said to see god in everything So didn't you see god in this how did you kill, he is putting his point of view.
So they think it is better to go to baba there. we will get the answer. so everyone goes and sits in front of baba
we killed a snake, so baba, is it right or wrong to kill such poisonous snakes. So baba says if god is everywhere and if
every action is happening with his permission in this world. Unless it has been ordained, it cannot bite you
And if it is ordained, then no matter how much you try, it will bite you anyway. So, where is the right to kill it?"
If Baba's words indicate that even a poisonous snake should not be killed,
then where is the permission to cut and eat goats, sheep, and other animals?
And it is even written that in the Dwarkamai (Baba’s mosque) he used to excrete
and he used to apply it like cow dung. It never smelled bad.
This is also documented in the scriptures, as like we apply cow dung what kind of a state is that
Means His own urination he used to immerse it there and used to apply it like as people used to apply cow dung in the olden days but it didn't smell bad
He would excrete and remain deeply immersed in meditation.
In another books, it is written that he would smear it like dung,
The purpose of this was to demonstrate that when one reaches such a high state,
for you the rules and regulations fall let me tell you the meaning of these two
words vidhi means this work is pure you have to do this. Nished means you don't have to do this work
You go beyond that and that is called avdhut avastha. let me give you another example
yes please
once Ramakrishna paramahamsa
and vivekanand's story once a reference came up, Vivekananda and other disciples were sitting
in front of Ramakrishna paramahamsa and Ramakrishna paramahamsa was telling Vivekananda that in future you will have to go out of the country so there if
if necessary because there you will find very few vegetarians and you have to take their support so if they serve you non-vegetarian food then eat it closing your eyes thinking it is a Prasad.
Don't take the stress about how do I do it here, if non-vegetarian food falls in your plate and you have to eat it then eat it.
After listen this, the other disciples started doubting
They thought, "All our lives, we have been taught to stay away from even the smell of meat, and now Guruji is telling Vivekananda that he can eat it."
They couldn’t control themselves and questioned Ramakrishna about it.
They used to call Ramakrishna paramahamsa as Thakur they said "Thakur we are unable to digest,
The answer Ramakrishna gave was brilliant.
He said, “Vivekananda’s devotion, meditation, and renunciation burn like a massive fire.
big it is, a wildfire, its a furnace, if I put a wet stick in it, it will burn and become ash, but the light of
Devotion and asceticism in you is like a small lamp even if I throw a dry stick to it. It will extinguish so don't compare yourself with Vivekananda.
He is a furnace of devotion, knowledge, asceticism. Even some wet stick falls in it, it will burn like ash. You ate non-veg
He meant that Vivekananda had reached a state where even eating non-vegetarian food due to circumstance wouldn’t affect him,
but ordinary people might develop a habit of it and fall into temptation.
Even throwing a dry stick will extinguish it. Even if you eat once you can get used to it
Swami Vivekananda won't get used to it he is in that state that he can extinguish Wet sticks
Similarly, Baba was also in such a supreme state that he could consume anything and remain unaffected. he who has won the taste why will he eat meat and who knows that it is a tamasic diet why will he eat
He did it to bring everyone along with him. If Baba fed someone meat with his own hands,
will definitely leave eating non-veg. With this I will end this topic.
He used to smoke Chilam. Is there any clarification for that?
Yes there is.
he used to smoke Chilam the whole day.
Yes, 24*7
It is clearly said in chapter 37 that
It is written in Chapter 37 that the chilam was never left unlit, even for a moment.
24×7, the smoke used to come out of Chilam, means he used to smoke, the chain smoking. Yes.
first of all a smoker who smokes continuously will not live for 4 days. A person can smoke 2-3 times a day, its very much and here 24×7 is going on, this is a furnace,
now from this we know that it is something different which is beyond our understanding and baba in chapter 37 says one more leela,
this Chilam that you are seeing on my lips do you know how difficult its journey is?
so the devotees say, 'no baba, we don't understand what you are saying so.
when it was in the form of mud then I first kneaded it under my feet
I will do one thing I will take it.
Baba is talking about the Chilam, in reality the it was blessed
although it was lifeless but its fate was so great
we even being a living cannot do the good service done by it so he is comparing us with the Chilam.
That what its greatness was. It is a lifeless thing still higher than us. How great was its penance in its childhood it was kneaded under feet
then it was kept under the sun and in the fire suffered the penance, the Chilam, fortunately it was purified and again it had to bear the heat means fortunately it was touched by baba
reached Dwarkamahi and then baba put it back in the dhuni in front
And after applying by the red mud and later it was colored with the bhagwa colour. It symbolizes detachment
and sannyasa (monasticism)—a sign that the person wearing it has given up all worldly attachments. After this, the chilam was honored by the touch of Baba’s lips
It is easy to say that "Baba ate meat" or "Baba smoked the chilam,"
but it is difficult to understand this journey
and until you understand the penance you will not be able to understand Chilam
Only those who undergo intense penance attain the ultimate knowledge of reality (tattva jnana)
When one attains this supreme knowledge, the five great elements come under their control. The chilam symbolizes this mastery.
Only one who has gained dominion over the five elements has the right to smoke the chilam.
The Bhagavad Gita (Chapter 13) describes two types of knowledge:
1. Spiritual Knowledge (Adhyatmic Jnana) – The realization that "I am not this body; I am the soul."
2. Knowledge higher than it is Elemental Knowledge – The understanding that everything in creation is composed of the five great elements. And the one who captives all five elements is Tattvagyani
Earth, Fire, Fire, Air, Sky.
So the one who holds those 5 elements in his grip is Tattva Gyani.
Now, smoking Chilim means that the one had a hold over those 5 elements, the chilam is a sign of that.
I will tell you how. First of all, Chilim is made out of Mud.
Earth. Right?
If you want to give it a shape, then you have to knead it with water.
So there is water. If you want to give it life, then you have to burn it in fire. Right?
And after that, when you pull it with your lips, then there is air. And when you let go of the smoke, then it becomes the sky.
Baba indirectly conveyed that if one truly masters these elements, then one can also smoke the chilam—otherwise, not.
Only Sai Baba is not the one who drinks Chilim.
Akalkot Swami Samarth.
He used to drink Chilim 24 by 7.
His photo is with it.
Gajanan Maharaj.
Shegaon.
He used to drink Chilim 24 by 7.
So, it means that these people have reached that stage—they are Avadhut, the heroes of the universe.
When Sadhana reaches its peak, And especially when Kundalini is awakened in one's life. Now there is a deep connection with Kundalini.
When Kundalini is awakened, then Vishwaprana Shakti becomes upward-facing.
It starts flowing upwards.
So there comes a situation, Especially when Prana Shakti crosses the Ajna Chakra, the crown.
So three things get stopped in the body.
Now this is a matter of experience.
First of all, the breath stops.
Like a common man, that man does not breathe.
His heartbeats stop.
Still the man is alive.
Does it stop or does it go according to him?
It stops.
And that Vishwprana Shakti, Which is only the medium vessel, Which is subtle, Which is not visible, It just continues to flow in it.
This is a big mystery.
This Chilim comes in the life of the such man.
In reality, prana shakti is so pure that if the body is not slightly contaminated by something like smoking then the body could simply fall away.
So to make it impure, Chilim.
So to make it impure, He is taking 24x7, So that this body remains a little more alive, And the welfare of four people can be achieved.
Because these people still needs my physical body. Oh God.
If I stop taking this, Then that pure Vishwachaitanya Shakti, It will take the body.
It will not survive either.
Because, To keep it alive for a little longer, It will have to be impure,
then that Vishwprana Shakti, In impure form, While taking it a little, Keeps it alive.
And the day he decided, it has to fall, Chilim was kept.
Did He left it, at the end? So obviously.
And then he went.
See, If it is pride for Sai Baba, Then it is intoxication for you, Completely opposite.
The opposite of intoxication is pride.
Yes. Right.
It is intoxication for you, But it is pride for saints like Sai Baba.
universal life force.
And I also feel that when He smokes the hookah, it's also a test for others. We often talk about the positive qualities of a guru.
Any person you meet in your life, If you go to see his negative, Then you will get countless.
But see his positive points, What is positive in this person?
Then your relation with him, Will be very good and strong.
If you see that, Sai Baba smoked Chilam, He ate non-veg, Then we also eat.
Guru eats, That's why I will eat. Guru drinks Chilam, That's why I will drink. This is very dangerous.
But Guru has done something else too. I always say that, If you say this, Then you also, Put your hand in the heated vessel And move it like a spoon. And Baba, used to cut his body separating hand and legs from it
It comes in the 8th chapter.
You also do the same. And he also joins it. That is also shown in the serial.
And He used to take out the intestines from the mouth and clean them.
He would dry them on branches of trees and then put them back inside his body.
So you also do that. And this is also written. Yes, yes. In the 8th chapter. It is called Khanda Yoga. It is called Dhauti Yoga. All these things are written.
Then if you say that you will also eat meat like him. you will also drink Chilam like him. Then first you do this.
Your status is not to pass SSC. And you are roaming with the IAS book. What will you call this? Show off. It is show off.
So it is better that the book of the class you are studying in looks good in your hand. The basics that Shri Krishna Told Arjun also.
Actually, in the entire Gita, Arjuna was never told how to gain powers. He was only taught how to live for humanity
And where you, yearn for the other person, The light that I have got, This person should also get it.
The completeness that I have got, This person should also get it.
And the day that yearning, Reaches your entire sky, Reaches pinnacle
Then, to give you all the powers, it doesn't take a moment for the master.
Why wouldn't it be given? So, that much purity of the soul must first come within me. After that, if those powers come, I will be able to use them. Powers are not bad in themselves.
I don't believe in them. I see them with the same pious eyes. But I will say, first Baba, my soul should become as pure as yours,
Your detachment should come within me. Your knowledge should come within me.
After that, All the powers you have, Give it all. Because I too, Like you, Will be able to serve this world, Till my last breath.
Otherwise, It won't take long to become Ravana.
You are coinciding with what I am saying. Yes
I gave the example of Ravana, Who was the wisest.
After that, You were not able to handle those powers. And you got an evil thinking
And you, Kidnapped someone's wife. In that, When Ravana was about to die, Then, Shri Ram told Lakshman, Go and get some knowledge from him.
So Lakshman went. It is said, He told Lakshman the reason for his defeat
that he had the ego of knowledge.
I had, The ego of knowledge. Because, I am a Brahmin with so much of knowledge. I had the ego of knowledge. And your brother had, The knowledge about ego. That's why I lost.
Huge difference. That brother, I am very knowledgeable. I read this, I read that. I got the ego of having knowledge
But the other person, He has the knowledge, That this thing is called ego.
And have to stay away from it. You have to stay away from it. So it will come to you only, When you, When you reach that level. Only then you can handle those powers.
Otherwise, Not every person can handle that power. And should not get it
Because until, this scripture, Sai Sacharitra, is not in your hand. But the big one, Not the small, I say this again and again.
Because, the small scripture has made it so complicated,
So, That is a problem.
If that scripture is not in your hand, And every word which is the speech of Baba doesn't enter your heart, You don't get the clarity of it. You don't understand the depth of every Leela. you don't conduct according to it how can you get the powers?
And how did he become your Guru? You are just speaking. Sachidanand Satguru Sainath Maharaj, You are just speaking. But how did he become your Guru?
There is a lot of difference between a follower and a fan. A lot. From the ground to the sky. Yes.
What I say is, If he, Didn't show all these things, Then this is also a state of spirituality, As high as it is. How would you know?
And it was in his hands. He could have hidden it. He could have hidden it. Correct.
Sai Baba abused a lot.
So, A saint and a knowledgeable one, And abuses a lot, He also abused women.
Why did Sai Baba abuse?
First of all, He didn't abuse all his life. But, there are some, specific occasions, Where he has really abused. Now, Yes, he has.
See, Again, Sai Sacharitra In the 7th chapter, And, In the first chapter, These are the only two chapters,
Where the curse words came in Sai Sacharitra
Its not like he abused all his life.
What happens is, Sai Baba, is grinding wheat.
And this thing spreads in the village, That Sai Baba is grinding the mill. What is the need for that? He is dependent on alms.
So, why is he grinding the mill? So, some women, Come running to the mosque
And ask Baba, Why are you doing this, We are here. So, they forcefully remove Baba from there.
Four women sit there, And start grinding.
1.5 ser, Means, Around 3-4 kgs, Of wheat flour is made.
As soon as it is ground, They feel, We have worked hard,
We have ground it. Women feel that.
Yes, women feel that.
So, They make their share. They don't even ask Baba. They make their share, Tie a bundle, and leave
Till then, he doesn't say anything.
Baba, till then, doesn't say a word. As soon as they hits on the back, as if it’s their share or right. So, Baba, at that time, in Marathi, calls them Phukat khau Randa.
Means?
Means, you whores where are you taking this flour as if it is free
By taking the flourl for free, you whores Where are you going?
Is this your father's property?
Had you given it to me in loan, Which you are taking with so much right.
Go, Take it outside the village. And spread it on the edges of the village.
So, people think, On the edges of the village, Baba, Means, To put it on the border, But, At that time, pandemic, Spreads in all the other villages,
So, There is a description, That, He stops, So that, Mahamari, Does not enter the village.
And, In reality, All the villages are affected, But, She does not enter Shirdi, There is such a description.
That is a Leela. Now, The question is, Baba, Why did he call them, Vesha?
People highlight this. He could have shouted If he was angry, He could have said something else. Yes, but, Why did he abuse them so badly?
In reality, The word, Vesha has not called to the women only, Okay. He has called, All of us, Devotees.
Who, Are connected to a Sadguru, to a God. But to not know there will, but to achieve own greed.
So, All such, Devotees, Selfish Devotees, Baba Has addressed them with that word.
In general, In reality, He is not addressing women. So, The people, Who take their lives, To worship God But with selfishness. They never try to understand their will. They don't worship with selfishness.
Baba have repulse all such people because it was selfishness. He thought I worked
so hard, That I got my right
Baba have repulse all such people because it was selfishness. He thought I worked
so hard, That I got my right
And, The same thing In Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says, Karman neva adhikaraste
Ma phaleshu kadachana.
You have the right to do a deed but not on the fruit (result)
So, Baba saw, Lord Krishna has given them this knowledge from centuries.
But, These people don't know to work without selfishness. So, What did Baba do?
Baba knew, That, These people, Will work so hard, And later, Will accept their
right, And leave.
But, He let them grind.
Grind.
First, Do a deed.
And, As soon as, After doing a deed, He touched the fruit, He didn't let them touch the fruit.
He didn't let them touch the fruit.
It has a deep meaning.
It was their, Selfish deed.
But he turned it into selfless work and yog.
And, He put it on the border.
And, In that way, His service, In a way, He became a service.
It was a, Normal deed.
But, As soon as, Selfishness fell, For the welfare of the world, As soon as,
Baba brought it into use, That their Normal deed became a Karma Yoga.
Hmm.
Now, See, Gnaneshwar Maharaj In Gnaneshwari In a chapter. He says People
who have such selfish feelings and do worship for years their selfishness Doesn't fall.
Such, Devotees are called, Vibhichari Bhakti.
It means, Veshya (Prostitute) Bhakti.
Okay.
Like a Veshya (Prostitute) gets ready to trap the costumer everyday. They sit in front.
They sell themselves.
Similarly, These people have new Desires everyday.
Today, If I ask for and I don't get it. Then Even they Changes the God.
Hmm.
I have been, Asking Sai Baba, For four months, Nothing is happening.
Now, Balaji goes, Hmm.
Let's ask, Shivji, Let's ask, Krishna.
So, Selfish, Bhakti, Converts you, Into Vibhichari Bhakti.
Then, Your, Bhakti, Doesn't remain, Unshakable.
You, A true devotee.
Then, Your, Bhakti, Begins to change.
Then, The centre of your, Bhakti, Changes.
Today, You are Sai Baba.
Tomorrow, You are Shivji.
Day after tomorrow, You are Krishna.
Then, You don't know, Where you will wander.
Sometimes, You will say, Balaji.
Sometimes, Girnar.
Hmm.
And where your demand Is fulfilled Then, You do the marketing of that God, Very well
You do marketing, And, Secondly, You bring other people, Like, You also come, Here.
I have fulfilled my wish.
My wish has been fulfilled.
Okay.
And, If one wish is fulfilled, Then, He is India.
He is an expert, Then, After one wish is fulfilled, Hundreds of wishes, Are fulfilled.
Correct.
He doesn't stop there.
He doesn't stop.
He is another danger.
We are just getting to know, That, You used the word, Randa.
Why did you do it?
Because, I have so much, Selfishness.
Like, You have just explained, Maybe, He is a true devotee, He will be able to understand.
Very few people, Will be able to understand, Because, They will take abuse, As abuse.
Only a Guru can explain this.
Yes.
And, They will take abuse, As abuse.
Why did you abuse?
What was so much anger?
That, You just abused.
Okay, he abused, he got so much anger, Because the same thing
Centuries ago, But, Even today, Your inner self Is not able to understand.
What to do?
Centuries ago.
And, He said that, In my first Shloka, Karman Diwari Karaste.
So, You don't believe in, The ghost of kicks.
So, Somewhere, There is a pain.
You have been, For so many births.
Even then, You don't understand.
Still, Your selflessness, Is there any other Leela, In which he abused and
We learn something from it?
There is one more, As I told you, There is one more Leela.
In the second place, And, Even there, He said Randa.
From the first tense.
Seventh.
And, He said it to the woman.
He said it to the woman.
Now, In the seventh chapter, There is a Leela, Once, There is a story, Of a
Female blacksmith and male.
Blacksmith, Husband and wife.
Husband and wife.
So, Once, The blacksmith was firing the furnace
The furnace of them
firing the furnace
So, Suddenly, there is a child next to her.
Okay.
Listen carefully, To this Leela.
He has taken the child and she is firing the furnace
Meanwhile, From inside her husband calls the blacksmith
As soon as she hears the call, She runs there.
And, While running the child slips and falls into the fire.
Yes, It is a very strange story.
He falls into the fire.
Yes, he falls.
And, Here baba is sitting in Dwarkamai, In Shirdi In the mosque.
And, The fire is burning he puts his hand Directly in it
In the burning fire.
And, His hand burns there.
Both the hands burn.
Behind, The devotees hold the baba and pull him.
Now, See When he was putting his hand in the fire, It didn't burn.
It didn't burn.
Because baba there Wanted to tell that he has full right, On the five Mahabhutas.
And, Here, He is telling that If you want to serve someone selflessly and save
someone, Then you will have to put yourself in risk Only then, Will you be able to save someone.
If you take someone's pain, Then, You will lose something.
You will lose.
He is also telling, Indirectly.
Very deep.
Yes.
No, This is real.
So, Okay, The way, Devotees hold and pull. Then they ask Baba, Baba Why did you do this?
Then he said a blacksmith was firing the furnace, and his husband called her
As soon as her attention was focused on husband. That this child slipped and fell into the fire.
And, I saved that child.
Let this hand burn.
But, A child's life, Was saved.
This is Baba's words.
So, Baba says, arey loharachi rand Raithi Rakhi (In Marathi)
So, He called a women ra**d there.
A blacksmith.
Now, The question is, What was the need, To scold her again?
It is a very deep, Leela.
So, There, Human weaknesses, There are, Two in the whole world.
One is, Kamini, And the other, Kanchan.
These are the weaknesses, Of every human being.
One is, Lust.
Sex.
And money.
Money.
This is the biggest weakness.
Her husband, Called her for sex.
Yes, Indirectly her interest Increased.
That means, She became centric towards him.
As soon as her attention was focused her interest increased, that
Her Child-like soul, Surrendered to fire.
That means, Her self-knowledge, In this birth also, Surrendered to fire.
That means, In this birth also, She will not have Self-knowledge.
The child there is Self-knowledge.
Child, Self-knowledge.
As soon as Your Interest towards Kamini and Kanchan, Increases That Your
Self-knowledge. You should have Love for that child like your heir But you
Surrendered it to fire.
So, Baba, Indirectly Is saying there that... this is why he abused. That Your Entire
Concentration... You take births but Your these two weaknesses Do not fall.
So, Taking birth I have been telling you that You should win. These two
things in this life atleast. Every time you sacrificed your soul like child to the fire
Because of Kamini and Kanchan. Taking birth, In every birth, You did that
You sacrificed your soul like son to the fire, But in this birth, I will not let that happen.
Even if my hand burns, But In this birth, I will keep your alive that soul like child.
Even if your, Kamini and Kanchan ends.
So, The interest towards Kamini and Kanchan, So there he used the word ra**da.
In every birth You have done the same thing You falls towards the Kamini and Kanchan.
And sacrifices your soul like child to fire. You falls towards Kamini and Kanchan, In the next birth
Surrender the soullike child to the fire. So Baba is saying that this time even if my hand burns
But this time even my hand get burn but i will safe your soul.
Even if after doing such a big thing,
If he is just abusing you with a word then i would say what's bad in this,
That's right.
Nice.
There are some podcasts where we become silent.
The whole studio has become silent now.
Everyone is listening in silence.
I wanted to know about his life.
Is there a description of his Guru?
Is there a description of Sai Baba's Guru?
Yes, there is a description.
In reality. His stature is on such level, we says him the God of the universe, he does not need a Guru
But to set an example that it is not possible without a Guru, There
is a story in the 32nd chapter.
It is said that me and my three friends go in search of Brahm Gyan.
In search of Brahm Gyan?
Yes, there is a story.
We go in search of Brahm Gyan.
And we keep wandering in the forest.
All of us have read vedas and all, all are scholars of the Vedas.
We go in search of Brahm Gyan.
And the forest is so dense that even the sun cannot reach there.
Dense?
Yes, dense.
We keep wandering in the forest.
We find a gypsy.
The gypsy asks us where we are going.
We look at his attire and say that he looks like a gypsy
What should we tell him?
Our goal is so high that what should we tell this gypsy
Sai Baba also thought the same.
Yes, this is how the story goes.
We put him aside and go ahead.
He says that the forest in which you are wandering is so dense, That it is difficult to find a way.
It is complicated.
Yes, it is difficult to find a way.
So, the forest means the world.
And if you wander in this world-like forest without a Guru, Then you will just
keep wandering.
You will just keep wandering.
Still, they don't believe.
All three?
All three.
All four.
Sai Baba is also there.
And then they keep wandering.
They don't even know.
They come back to the same place where the gypsy is
All three think, what is this?
We have come back to the same place again.
So, the gypsy says, I have just come to show my intelligence.
I still say, take along a guide.
They don't believe.
Then in the end, they say, Okay, don't tell me about your discovery.
But eat this dry bread and chutney.
All three don't believe.
But Baba thinks, What is the selfishness of the man?
He is giving.
He is giving.
And he is feeling my hunger.
He is feeling my thirst.
What can be greater than this?
So, all three don't believe.
But Baba says, Give it to me.
I will eat it.
So, as soon as he says, One-fourth of the dry bread.
And as soon as he eats it with chutney, The Guru appears.
This is how it comes in the character.
So, the gypsy was the Guru.
This comes later.
But it comes in the character that a Guru appeared.
So, the question is, While the gypsy was there, Did a Guru appear there
with beard, moustache, Or in disguise?
Or was the gypsy the Guru?
It is not clear.
It is not clear.
And it is not done on purpose.
Only the Guru appeared.
And, The story is telling that, Till the time I, With my intelligence,
Believing in myself, When I was doing research, Till then, He was the gypsy.
As long as my will was going on.
But as soon as the gypsy says, Eat this bread, Listen to me, Drink this water
As soon as he kept his promise, Kept his will on the threshold, And
obeyed his order, In that time, The gypsy became the Sadguru.
Meaning, The depth of the story is that, Till the time my will was going on,
The hero of infinite universe Will also be the Guru.
So, I made him the gypsy.
Today, Sai Baba, The hero of infinite universe Is the Sadguru.
But if my will was going on, I made him the gypsy.
And if I make his wish my crown, And wear it on my head,
Then I make an ordinary gypsy, The Guru of the universe.
So, Indirectly, He told through the medium of Leela, That,
Even I have a physical Guru.
See, In chapter 11, There is a verse,
Till the time, You consider yourself a Physical body,
You need a physical Guru.
Till the time, You consider yourself physical.
I consider myself physical.
Then, You need a bodily Guru.
And, You start considering yourself, pure consciousness at that height,
Your journey has reached.
You start considering yourself light.
Yes.
Means, Then, You will start understanding, The teachings of a pure Sadguru.
Because, Your frequency will match.
Because, You have reached there.
Yes, that level.
To absorb, That teaching.
Which is Nirgun and Nirakar.
So, Those who directly say, No, I consider Sai Baba as my Guru.
I don't need a physical Guru.
So, Baba has given the answer for them.
There is a need.
Yes.
That's why, From Shri Krishna, From Mahavatar Babaji, To Sai Baba, Everyone
says, There should be a Guru.
See, There are many Gurus.
But, Which Guru to select, That should also be in your destiny.
No, but, Let me clear one thing.
This question is good.
If, Looking at the qualities of a Guru, If you want to bow down, Then, There
are more chances of getting trapped.
As in, You will get trapped.
That, No, This should be the quality.
There should be so much greatness.
Oh, I see.
Yes.
There should be so many, Supernatural qualities.
Then, I will consider you as my Guru.
You are trapped.
You are trapped.
In reality, You don't have to see the greatness of a Guru.
You have to see your own, Inferiority complex.
That, How much can I bow down, In front of an ordinary person.
Remember this.
I am telling you a very different thing.
I don't know, How much you can bow down.
It is very deep.
I understood.
Meaning, The ability of a Guru, The greatness of a Guru, Don't look at the
completeness of a Guru.
First, How much you can bow down.
How much you can lay yourself down.
And to learn.
To learn.
Meaning, The whole game is of your, Inferiority complex.
It is not about, The greatness of the person in front of you.
Correct.
And, The greatness of the person in front of you, Are all people.
Yes.
99.9% Yes.
That, A good Guru should be there.
His birth place, Yes, There has been a controversy on his birth place.
Okay.
Actually, Our ex CM, Uddhav Thackeray, He said, He had, Sanctioned some, 100
crores, For, Development of, Pathri.
He said, That it is his birth place.
Then, The people of Shirdi got angry, That, How can you say that?
So, There was a controversy on that too.
So, You can clear that.
In the fourth chapter, There is a Leela.
Once, Baba, Was seen for the first time, In Shirdi at the age of 16
And, He is sitting completely, Concentrated.
He is not seeing, The cold, Nor the sun.
He is sitting, Neem tree, And, He is completely, So, People are very surprised,
That, In such a young age, Such a strong Samadhi, Who is he?
So, Many people, Try to ask Baba, That, Where did you come from?
Who is your, Mother and father?
Which is your village?
He did not answer.
So, Once, In a person, Sometimes, To enter the womb.
So, By doing Khandoba, Which is the form of, Lord Shiva, He enters, The womb of
a person, And, He starts swinging.
So, People think, That, Khandoba, Has entered their mind.
So, They ask, That, Where did this child come from?
So, Khandoba says, Start digging here.
The child who was sitting, Under the Neem tree, Baba, Start digging there.
So, They dig there, And, A tunnel comes out.
There are stairs inside.
And, Through that, People go inside, Go down and see, There is a Samadhi,
Where, Four lamps are burning, and a garland, and a gowmukhi, in which.
They put their hands inside amd so people are amazed and, Four lamps are burning.
They are burning.
So, People ask, What is this?
So, They ask Baba, Baba, What is this?
Baba says, This is my Guru's Samadhi, Close it again, And, Never open it again.
Baba says, As in, 16 years old, Sai Baba.
This is my Guru's place.
This is my Guru's Samadhi.
Okay.
Don't touch this.
Close it again.
This is Leela.
So, He is there, And, He is asking Khandoba, Where did this child come from?
Who are his parents?
He also didn't tell.
He told, Dig this.
Dig this.
So, He told, This child is not an ordinary one.
And, He also says, He has come up here, After 12 years of penance.
From down?
From down.
Oh my God!
Yes, This is the main thing.
So, His parents, They are not mentioned in Sai Satcharita either.
And, Clearly, It comes in the chapter, That people got tired of asking.
But, Baba never told, About his birth place, About his parents, He never told.
So, What I say is, We call him, Sadguru, Right?
If, My Sadguru, Does not want to tell anything about himself, The matter ends
there, There ends the matter, Correct.
Then Forceful doing Investigate and searches.
No, Baba used to talk about the people of Patharadi more often.
That is why, He was born in Patharadi, To investigate, Or, To try to prove it,
Oh, The one, Who is the hero of the universe, The one, Who can sit in the womb
of the earth, For 12 years, Do penance, And come out, And, The one, Whose
consciousness, Is present in the entire universe, Why do you want to tie him,
To a country, To a village?
No, I mean, If he did not want to tell, Clearly, It comes, That people got
tired of asking.
It comes like this.
People used to ask him.
But, He never told.
Sir, These forms of Sai Baba comes, Like if we talk about Satya Sai Baba, Then,
Now, There is a child, Who says, Yes, This is Sai Baba's form.
So, Do you believe in forms, That, He is like Satya Sai Baba, Or, No
He is Sai Baba's, Next birth.
And, His biggest video was, When Sachin Tendulkar and Big people,
Followed him, I mean, He was at a very high level, Satya Sai Baba.
No, I don't believe.
Okay.
I am speaking straight.
I don't believe.
Because, If, Satya Sai Baba, Was Baba's avatar, Then, This scripture, There is
so much, Spiritual wisdom, Hidden in it, That, First of all, You keep it out.
Hmm.
This complete, Wisdom, Is hidden.
You reveal it.
You bring it, In front of the world.
Then, Why didn't you do this?
Then, I need an answer to this.
Everything, Is so hidden, And, Baba, Has kept it, In parables.
Now, Whatever I am telling, I am telling parables.
Yes.
But, He never kept it.
No, No, He didn't say.
So, You couldn't even touch, His spiritual wisdom.
Then, How can I consider you, His avatar?
Hmm.
First, Sai Baba's, Spiritual wisdom, In front of the world.
Then, We believe, You are the avatar.
I will say this.
Maybe, Many people, Will feel bad about me.
Like, In one of your satsangs, You said that, Many non-vegetarian people, Were
also away from you.
Yes, They were.
That, Earlier, They were your followers.
But, As soon as, You spoke against, Non-vegetarian people, They left.
They left.
Today, They won't listen to me.
But, A time will come, Maybe, I won't live in this world.
But, This truth, As long as, This world will exist, Till then, It will live.
Because, There is no confusion in it.
Each and every, Leela, Is wisdom.
And, Until, It comes in front of the world, How will it happen?
So, Sai Baba, Till now, I believe, That, He has taken the avatar, For 80 years,
He has lived, In this Chiridi.
It has been 100 years, But, Sai Baba's, Spiritual wisdom, No one, Wants to touch it.
I am saying this, With a scream, That, This is the book, Sai Satcharita.
This is the Hindi translation, Of Kakariyan Ji.
You, Please, Read this book.
Let, Each and every, Word of this, Enter your heart.
Get connected, With Baba's, Spiritual wisdom.
This is original, Not a miracle.
And, So much, Awareness, Of wisdom, Has not been spread, That, This photo,
Baba's photo, Was taken, By a photographer, Called S.S.Devri, In 1918.
So, He had taken, His photo.
So, On that basis, His statue, Was made, So, If he, Had not taken the photo, In
1918, Then, More awareness, Would have been lacking.
Now, At least, We have a picture, That, This was Baba.
There is an appearance, Which gives confidence, Somewhere.
If, This was not there, Then, More awareness, Would have been lacking.
And, One more thing, And, A very important aspect, Because, We are talking
about wisdom, Baba, Says, To this extent, In the Sai Satcharita, What does Baba
say, That, Now, I am leaving, He says to his devotees, I will again, In the
form of eight years, Take the avatar again.
Now, We are talking about the avatar, And, Our society, Is so dangerous, That,
Tomorrow, Someone, Will make an eight year old, Stand.
This is Sai Baba's avatar, Because, Baba has said it.
But, Today, I will, Break that illusion, Today itself.
In reality, This text, Is the eight year old, Child.
How?
Yes.
Now, I will tell you, That, First of all, I have proved, That, This text, A
devotee, Himarpanth, Comes to Baba, And says, Baba, I want to write, Your
biography.
So, Baba says, Why will you write, My biography?
Is it so easy, To write my biography?
I don't want to write, My biography.
I have kept my body and mind, I consider myself, My body.
And, With that perspective, You will not be able, To judge me.
So, First, Get rid of, Your ego.
Get rid of, Your body and mind.
The day, You become zero, I will enter you, And I will write, My biography.
So, In 1910, He came to Baba, And, Baba took, Twelve years, To wash him, To get rid of, His ego.
To get rid of, Meaning, How much he must have gone through, Twelve years.
For twelve years.
How much he must have gone through. Yes, He must have and Baba, In 1918, Gives up his body.
And in 1922, For the first time, He feels, Something is, Coming out of me.
The feeling of writing, Begins to awake.
Meaning, At that moment, Those, Oversights, So Baba started writing in the form
of a pen He started writing in 1922 In 1930, this
book came into the world How many years has it been?
8 years
And do you know what is said at one place?
It is said in the 27th chapter
आपद जाऊ जवा निजधाम ग्रन्थ प्रतिमा होतील
When I leave my body and enter into my Nijdhama
At that time in the form of my avatar, my Vangmai murti, a book will be in the
hands of the world This is the 8 year old child This book has such a high
status But there is nothing serious about it I had one last question It has
also been said that they are not Sanatanis That there is no Sanatani at all.
So the basics from which we all come from Sanatan Dharma I feel that everyone is Sanatani
Later there were branches of different religions Some became Catholic,
some became Muslim There were different branches Everyone is Sanatani but they
are not called Sanatani So shed some light on this First of all, who is
Sanatani?
The immortal The one who never ends The one who is beyond the infinite The
infinite is Sanatani Is the infinite a body?
No Is the infinite a religion?
No The infinite is the consciousness The infinite is the God The God So we are
calling that God the Sanatani indirectly Right?
So All his life Baba preached that God Still
Baba is not Sanatani Right?
Now We talk about Krishna We talk about Krishna Krishnam Vande Jagadgurum So
when we are calling Krishna the Jagadguru.
We are saying him the Guru of the whole universe
Then he is not the Guru of the Muslims No, he is the Guru of everyone
Means The one who has attained the knowledge of the essence That is Sanatani In
my opinion If Jesus reaches the knowledge of the essence then he is Sanatani.
If an Islamic person reaches the knowledge of the essence Then he is Sanatani
And to reach that Godly essence In our religion
In our Hindu religion, Then there is
Upanishad, Vedanta  Bhagavad Gita And Baba in the Sai Satcharita In every chapter
I am saying in every chapter, there is the essence of Bhagwat Gita.
There are essence of Upanishads.
If you have heard Upanishads, the same have written in the Sai Satcharita
Like I give an example Chapter 17 Shreya Upreya, Kathopanishad The entire
Kathopanishad was revealed in Chapter 17 Still Baba is not Sanatani
And baba has written
Baba has written the scripture, Chapter 17.
The people who are saying Sanatani. They also don't know what Shreya Upreya is.
What is Kathopanishad
will tell Baba that You are not Sanatani Chapter 17 The entire Kathopanishad
Chapter 20 The entire Ayeshabasya Upanishad
will tell Baba that You are not Sanatani Chapter 17 The entire Kathopanishad
Chapter 20 The entire Ayeshabasya Upanishad
Still Baba is not Sanatani.
Chapter 39 and 50 And I am quoting with numbers
In one shloka of Bhagavad Gita
Baba spends two chapters.
तद्विद्धि प्रणिपातेन परिप्रश्नेन सेवया |
उपदेक्ष्यन्ति ते ज्ञानं ज्ञानिनस्तत्त्वदर्शिन: ||
He spent 2 chapters on this shlok.
This is the 34th shloka of the 4th chapter of Bhagavad gita.
Gita Despite explaining in such detail Sai Baba is not Sanatani Chapter
9 On alms On Panchasona The entire Brihadaranyaka Upanishad The entire
Brihadaranyaka Upanishad Chapter 9 Still Baba is not
Sanatani In Chapter 44 Baba is lying dead for three days
For three days Dead body No breath or heartbeat As I told you Nadi is going on
He comes into a state He has taken it from the entire Kathopanishad You read
the Kathopanishad Then what is that three day Samadhi What is it called You
will understand The entire Kathopanishad It is
very important to have a clear base And those three days Two nights and one day
The entire Mandika Upanishad Means It is filled with so much wisdom Vedic
wisdom There are so many similarities Despite that Sai Baba is not Sanatani
Which Sai Baba are you talking about I will have to ask this Maybe you have
another Sai Baba Not the one from Shirdi
There is someone else in your chaanmia
Not the Sai Baba from Shirdi No, he is beyond understanding Today
I feel Subscribers must have got a lot of knowledge A lot of controversies must
have been cleared And those people Who were associated with Sai Baba And got
upset with anything All their doubts They didn't study but their faith was true
Someone must have manipulated them And they must have gone away from Baba So
today they can come back They must have got a good confidence I feel It was
very important for them to get confidence One more big thing happened The
Sai Sacharitra that you have kept here You have told us That we have to study it Which
a lot of people Don't know I will definitely Through this podcast To the
institution. Shridi sai institution, To all devotees I will really pray To stop the small one And the
big one Because They should not think of business Because the thing they are
selling If because of that So many problems are arising Then it should be
stopped as soon as possible Thank you very much Today was a very Enlightening
episode We are very sure that There will be comments in this So thank you For
coming here sir Thank you very much We get a lot of comments That you talk a
lot among the guests Today he has spoken very little One more thing I wanted to
ask This science will be in all languages Maximum languages So it is available
in all languages So this is Hindi Its name is Kakariya Kakariya is a writer He
has written it Translated it And the original is in Marathi So if you know
Marathi, You can take the original Marathi, So if you liked Today's podcast Then
do like, share, comment and subscribe to vin vin world and tell us in the comment
If you want to invite a guest We will try to invite him Till then Om Sairam.
Om Sairam. Thank you sir, It was very enlightening Yes I
don't know You must have Experienced When you tell people Many people cry Many
people get enlightened It was a first for me Once he asked in the crowd Once he
asked. He asked all the parents Who is there Who will teach his child Sai
character One lady answered And the camera also went on Even then one lady
Picked it up and said I am very thankful to you
Right sir So Nice
Very nice. Thank you sir